# Tableau-Citibike

The story and visuals that goes along with the analysis has been posted on https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/dennis.chen3043/viz/citibike_analysis_16623512224770/CitiBikeStory. This analysis look at a public data publish by Citibike.

### Citibike User Data and Trend
In the graph of 2020 monthly usage, we can see there is a decline in the usage of bikes during winter. This is likely due to the weather condition not appealing people to be riding bikes. When the weather starts to get warmer, the number of bike usage starts to pick up which will form a bell shape with the peak point during summer. However, keep in mind that this data is from 2020 where COVID-19 started. The pandemic made this year's data slightly different with the lowest bike usage being in April. The 2020 monthly usage graph is further broken down to see the usage by different user type and the duration it is used for. The Citi bike usage and duration by subscriber is relatively consistent compare to short-term customers. Short-term customers have a very low usage rate during the winter and starts to increase when it gets close to the middle of the year. A phenomenon that can be notice here is the duration short-term customers use a bike is a lot higher than subscribers. A potential reason is the subscribers who uses Citi bikes use it as a way to commute so their trip is just to go from point A to B whereas the short-term customers use Citi bike maybe for sight-seeing or just a relax day with friends. Naturally this made the usage duration of short-term customers to be longer. On the next page is a stacked bar graph of different user type in every month. In this graph, we can see the major cause to the shift in usage number to be mostly due to short-term customers. There is still some usage difference by subscriber throughout the months but it is not a big difference. 

### Trip Duration VS Age
This is not really discovering a phenomenon but more of discovering a flaw in the way age data is being collected. It seems like user age is not being verified so it created a situation where I have some doubts in the accuracy of the graphs that uses those data. According to the data, Citi bike have customers ranging from age 16 to 132 and the highest bike usage rate is by people of age 51. If that data is disregarded, the majority of our users falls between age 23 to 45. When we look at the graph of average trip duration by age, the younger the riders are the longer the trip duration. However, there is some outliers and incorrect data that made the data really weird. The highest average trip duration is by the age of 81. The trip duration is accurate but it is an outlier. It increases the average drastically. This user is probably also not 81 years old. If more insight is wanted to be gather from user's age, it needs to be verified in some way. If it is only there for legal purposes, the accuracy of user's age would not be important.

### Top Starting and Ending Stations and Bike Usage Throughout the Day
Another phenomenon that can be discovered is that the top starting and ending stations is very similar. This means that they don’t need to hire people to move those bikes from station to station because most of the bikes will end up where it started. The other part that kind of go hand in hand with this is the bike usage throughout the day. By the time bike usage rate starts to pick up in the day, there needs to be enough bikes at the stations for the user so the fact that the starting and ending stations is similar reduce the problems that might arise from this. The bike usage rate starts to rise in the morning around the time where people go to work. Throughout the day, the usage rate pretty much continues to rise reaching a peak at around 6 PM. This makes sense because most people get off work and school around that time. College students go to schools at different time span but most of them would be gone by 6. Also, people might have more time to take bike when leaving comparing to being on time for work or class. 
